From: Mailer-Daemon@email-delivery.galegroup.com
Date: September 12, 2006 6:44:23 PM EDT
To: Sumit-Khanna@utc.edu
Subject: CSUS scales back sport facility plan: Initial $25 million is raised...

InfoTrac Web: General BusinessFile Internat'l.

AL General
AT CSUS scales back sport facility plan: Initial $25 million is raised, but
  scope of project has changed.
CT Sacramento Bee (Sacramento, CA)
DP April 8, 2006 pNA
LW NA
ND 20060728
PB McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
PT Newspaper
RM COPYRIGHT 2006 Gale Group
ZZ

   Source:  Sacramento Bee (Sacramento, CA), April 8, 2006 pNA.

    Title:  CSUS scales back sport facility plan: Initial $25 million is
            raised, but scope of project has changed.

Electronic Collection:  CJ144244949
                   RN:  CJ144244949


Full Text COPYRIGHT 2006 The Sacramento Bee

Byline: Eric Stern

Apr. 8--In April of 2004, a record number of students at California State
University, Sacramento, cast ballots to raise their own fees and help build a
new sports and entertainment complex.

The plan called for a 236,000-square-foot facility that would house a fitness
center, health clinic and basketball arena that could host graduation
ceremonies, concerts and other events.

The deal came with a silver lining: A $110-per-semester fee hike wouldn't go
into effect until school officials tapped private donors for the first $25
million needed for the project. "The facility is anticipated to open in 2008,"
according to the referendum text.

On Thursday, nearly two years after the vote, school administrators announced
the initial $25 million had been raised and ground would be broken this
summer.

But the project has changed significantly, and the details were unclear to
many students - even the student body president who praised the plan during
Thursday's announcement.

By Friday, students were scrutinizing a downsized plan that included a student
fitness center but indefinitely postponed construction of a basketball arena -
one of the key selling points during the campaign.

"I didn't know that," said student body President Angel Barajas, 24, on
Friday. The day before, he stood with CSUS President Alexander Gonzalez at a
media event and praised the forthcoming Recreation and Wellness Center, which
will include a student workout facility.

At the news conference, officials noted the "event center" - which is the
arena - would be broken off and built separately from the complex in the
future, depending on funding.

Barajas, a government major from Woodland, said he misunderstood the project's
description. The arena "was originally promised to the students when they
voted for it," he said.

In fact, the only certainty about the project is that construction will begin
this summer on a $10 million field house that will include a weight room for
student athletes and offices for the football coaches.

The university still needs approval from the CSU board of trustees before
starting construction on the $55 million student fitness center, although
Gonzalez insisted the funding is secure. Construction will not start on that
building until the field house is completed, perhaps by the end of 2007.

He also vowed in an interview Friday that the 8,000-seat arena would be built,
but he could not provide a timeline or a pricetag for the building, or
identify funding for it.

Two months ago, he told The Bee in an interview that the university was making
"a lot faster progress ... that we hadn't anticipated."

"I think the arena - we call it the Events Center - is moving along," he said.

On Friday, Gonzalez said the original concept to house all the facilities
together - estimated last year at $120 million - was changed by architects. He
said such a large complex would creep onto an existing practice track needed
for NCAA track and field events.

"We have to figure out a way to build the events center," he said. "Nothing
ever gets started all at once, that's the problem."

He said the new plan still should appease students because they most wanted a
fitness center. "They want their own gym," he said.

But several students interviewed on campus Friday were not satisfied with the
explanation.

"That's kind of sketch. I think that cheats the students," said Robby Brenner,
21, a junior from Pleasanton.

Andrew Cotter, 28, of Brentwood, a graduate student in sports psychology, said
the arena was touted as way to build school pride and he recalled student
athletes campaigning for it.

"That is why they pushed that measure," said Alex Arceo, 29, a graduate
student from Clarksburg.

Other students were grateful that a fitness center was still included.

"I think it's good they're building the gym part," said Kate Carleton, 25, a
nursing student. "They don't have anything for the student body."

She said she wasn't bothered that the arena has been postponed but still
expects it to be built.

"It'd be totally different if they didn't end up building it, and they
pocketed the money," she said.

After the 2004 referendum passed, students began paying an extra $10 per
semester for planning and design of the sports complex. The $110 fee - which
will increase based on a consumer price index - kicks in once private funding
is secured.

Gonzalez said students will pay the higher fee starting this summer. "It will
be adjusted" for inflation, although a university spokesperson later said the
fee will remain at $110.

------------

WHAT BALLOT SAID

In April 2004, CSUS students agreed to a $110-per-semester fee hike, with
inflationary increases, when they voted in this measure:

"Shall the University Union move forward with the construction and operation
of the proposed Recreation/Wellness/Events Center? Proposed programs and
services include a Recreation Center, and an Events Center totaling 236,000
square feet. The commitment of the university is to reduce the impact to
students by committing to raise $25,000,000 prior to the fee being
implemented. ... The facility is anticipated to open in 2008."

On Thursday, CSUS officials announced the $110 fee is kicking in, but the
original idea for the sports complex has changed:

* Construction on a $10 million field house for student athletes and coaches
will proceed this summer.

* Funding has been secured for a $55 million Recreation and Wellness Center,
with a student fitness facility and a health clinic, but it still needs
approval from CSU trustees. Construction will not begin until the field house
is complete (expected by late 2007).

* The arena is to be built as a separate facility but the timeline and funding
have not been identified.

* Proposed renovations to the existing stadium also have been postponed.

- Eric Stern

Copyright (c) 2006, The Sacramento Bee, Calif.

Distributed by Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News.

For information on republishing this content, contact us at (800) 661-2511
(U.S.),

(213) 237-4914 (worldwide), fax (213) 237-6515, or e-mail
reprints@krtinfo.com.

                                -- End --

