PC 2500 - Quiz 3

1

My role as an audience member would be that of a manager. Within this role, I'd have to evaluate the presentations of the two companies and make judgments on which product would be best for the company; that would be easy to install, use and maintain.

Other people who would potentially be at this meeting would be accountants, who would evaluate the products as end users, the companies technical staff (computer experts) who would evaluate the systems to see which one had the best design/functionality and possibly other management that may not have any background with the technical aspects of the computer systems. All these roles are important and each person's evaluations and input can greatly help the decision to purchase a system that everyone can benefit from.

2. 
a. Social Security presentation at a senior citizens center.

For this presentation, I'd want to do a lot of research on the needs of the elderly. My audience would be mostly composed of people in their sixties and up and possibly their family members. I could incorporate stories from my own parents/grandparents experiences to help relate to the audience. 

It's necessary to speak loudly and clearly since hearing tends to fade with age. All visual aids with text on them should be large and clearly visible, once again because eye sight fades with age. 

I'd also want to have my homework/research done on Social Security for when they ask questions. If there are any family members of the senior citizens in the audience, I could throw in some information on how they can help and also some tips for when they get older.


b. Child safety measures at a daycare center.

My audience would consist mostly of daycare workers and managers. I'd want to do a lot of research at accidents at daycares and ways to easily prevent them. Visual aids should consist of clear and easy to follow diagrams. It might also be helpful to bring in full size posters that I can give to them that they can place up on the walls of their daycares; possibly have first aid posters donated from the local health centers or Red Cross.

Although there probably wouldn't be any children in the audience, since most of the audience works either directly or indirectly with children, it would help to go over some things that they could discuss with their kids that would help the children understand the importance of the child safety measures.


c. Proposed curriculum changes at the local high school.

My audience for this would be very broad. It would consist of teachers, principals, staff and potentially parents and school board directors. Although I could assume the faculty and staff have a deep understanding of how the school system works, I'd have to add in explanation for parents who may not be familiar with the system. The audience would need to be provided with risk analysis of how proposed changed would effect teachers, parents and students. Case studies from other schools would be very helpful.

Question would vary greatly from the different types of audience members. It's important, once again, to do all your homework, have plenty of studies from other schools who've tried what your proposing and always be open to new ideas from the audience. Don't be afraid to simply say "I don't know" if you don't know the answer to an audience question.


Points possible: 50 max.


