Sumit Khanna - PC 2700 - Quiz #2

1. When is speaking anxiety experienced, and what are some of the symptoms?

The symptoms of speaking anxiety are a result of fear and include sweaty palms (or worse), rapid heart beat and palpitations. In the more extreme cases, a presenter may become petrified and experience stuttering and even fainting.

2. What is the primary reason for speaking anxiety?

Speaking anxiety comes out our body's natural defense for an unusual situation. It's primarily based of fear, specifically the fear of failure, looking ridiculous and embarrassment. Often people presenting will feel vulnerable as if they were wearing a large target.

3. Discuss three ways we can change our state of mind in regards to speaking
anxiety. You must be specific in your answer.

There are several ways you can change you state of mind in regards to speaking anxiety. First you can realize that nervousness is more inward than outward; that an audience rarely picks up on the fact that you are nervous. Second, you need to not only see yourself as confident, but believe it as well. Third, think positively. Realize that you are in charge of the presentation and that you can lead it where you want it to go. Fourth, make and maintain eye contact with your audience and smile. Fifth, Show enthuse about your topic. Enthusiasm is contagious and turns negative energy into positive energy. Finally, be optimistic. Realize that your presentation WILL go well and be sure to congratulate yourself after it's done.


4. Discuss four concrete actions we can take to help us overcome speaking
anxiety. Be specific in your answer.

There are several concrete actions people can take to overcome speaking anxiety, and I'll go into them in the following bulleted list:

* Harness your Adrenaline. Humans have a natural "Fight or Flight" instinct. Instead of fleeing, choose to fight and turn all that energy to run into enthusiasm.

* Be extremely well prepared. If you are well prepared and do your research, it will show and your audience will appreciate it. If you're not prepared and it shows, it's like a direct insult to your audience.

* Practice, practice, practice. Practice is critical to your presentation. Don't go in with the "I'll just wing it" approach. It's rare when this one actually works. You can practice with your friends, stuffed animals (and believe me those stuffed animals can be pretty harsh critics) or a mirror. Practice until you feel confident but don't over do it; don't practice until exhaustion.

* Breath. When you practice your presentation, also practice breathing and taking slow calming breaths. Breathing deeply before a presentation can calm you down and make you better psychologically prepared for the presentation.

5. Briefly discuss (50-60 words) your own particular speaking anxiety, even
if for you it is mild. How do you effectively deal with it?

I was first exposed to public speaking formally in my Middle School English class where we had to do two 2 and a half minute long presentations with visual aids. Because of my early exposure and positive experience with public speaking, I've always had a positive view towards it and my own anxieties have typically been mild.

Most of my presentations have been to students or groups of my peers, which I actually believe is much easier than when I was involved with the Student Venture ministry (read: Campus Crusade) and had to present to 1,000+ people who I had never seen before at conferences and fund raisers. 

My greatest speaking anxiety comes after I'm done with a presentation if I realize I have forgotten something important. It's important to do it right the first time because after you sit back down in your chair, you can't really add anything to it. 

An example was a recent CSC 4300 presentation where a student asked me a question and I had to draw up a diagram on the board. After I sat down, I realized that if I had just exited the presentation and opened up my old project proposal, it was filled with several pre-made diagrams that explained perfectly what I was trying to say, plus gave additional useful information, but at the time all I could think was "Why didn't I make these diagrams for my slide show." I hate the phrase "Think outside the box" with a passion, but this is one of those cases where the presentation software really restricted me and when you're up there, it's hard to think outside of these few slides as your only visual aids.
